VM rollout strategy (#758)
kubevirt/user-guide: docs/operations/vm_rollout_strategies.md

# VM Rollout Strategies

In KubeVirt, the VM rollout strategy defines how changes to a VM object affect a running guest.  
In other words, it defines when and how changes to a VM object get propagated to its corresponding VMI object.

There are currently 2 rollout strategies: `LiveUpdate` and `Stage`.
Only 1 can be specified and the default is `Stage`.

## Feature Gate

As long as the `VMLiveUpdateFeatures` is not enabled, the VM Rollout Strategy is ignored and defaults to "Stage".
The feature gate is set in the KubeVirt custom resource (CR) like that:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    developerConfiguration:
      featureGates:
        - VMLiveUpdateFeatures
```

## LiveUpdate

The `LiveUpdate` VM rollout strategy tries to propagate VM object changes to running VMIs as soon as possible.  
For example, changing the number of CPU sockets will trigger a [CPU hotplug](./cpu_hotplug.md).

This is how the strategy is set in the KubeVirt CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    vmRolloutStrategy: "LiveUpdate"
```

## Stage

> The `Stage` VM rollout strategy on the other end stages every change made to the VM object until its next reboot.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Stage` VM rollout strategy stages every change made to the VM object until its next reboot.  
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    vmRolloutStrategy: "Stage"
```

## RestartRequired condition

Any change made to a VM object when the rollout strategy is `Stage` will trigger the `RestartRequired` VM condition.  
When the rollout strategy is `LiveUpdate`, only non-propagatable changes will trigger the condition.

> Once the RestartRequired condition is set on a VM object, not further change can be propagated, even when the strategy is `LiveUpdate`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the `RestartRequired` condition is set on a VM object, no further changes can be propagated, even if the strategy is set to `LiveUpdate`.  
```

# VM Rollout Strategies

In KubeVirt, the VM rollout strategy defines how changes to a VM object affect a running guest.  
In other words, it defines when and how changes to a VM object get propagated to its corresponding VMI object.

> There are currently 2 rollout strategies: LiveUpdate and Stage.
> Only 1 can be specified and the default is Stage.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are currently 2 rollout strategies: `LiveUpdate` and `Stage`.  
Only 1 can be specified and the default is `Stage`.
```

## Feature Gate

As long as the `VMLiveUpdateFeatures` is not enabled, the VM Rollout Strategy is ignored and defaults to "Stage".
The feature gate is set in the KubeVirt custom resource (CR) like that:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    developerConfiguration:
      featureGates:
        - VMLiveUpdateFeatures
```

## LiveUpdate

> The `liveUpdate` VM rollout strategy tries to propagate VM object changes to running VMIs as soon as possible.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `LiveUpdate` VM rollout strategy tries to propagate VM object changes to running VMIs as soon as possible.  
```

For example, changing the number of CPU sockets will trigger a [CPU hotplug](./cpu_hotplug.md).

This is how the strategy is set in the KubeVirt CR:

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    vmRolloutStrategy:

>       liveUpdate: {}

Reviewer 2: It's a plain string and not a struct :)

```

## Stage

> The `stage` VM rollout strategy on the other end stages every change made to the VM object until its next reboot.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `Stage` VM rollout strategy, on the other end, stages every change made to the VM object until its next reboot.  
```

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: KubeVirt
spec:
  configuration:
    vmRolloutStrategy:

>       stage: {}

Reviewer 2: same as above (plain string)

```

## RestartRequired condition

> Any change made to a VM object when the rollout strategy is `stage` will trigger the `RestartRequired` VM condition.  
> When the rollout strategy is `liveUpdate`, only non-propagatable changes will trigger the condition.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any change made to a VM object when the rollout strategy is `Stage` will trigger the `RestartRequired` VM condition.  
When the rollout strategy is `LiveUpdate`, only non-propagatable changes will trigger the condition.
```

> Once the RestartRequired condition is set on a VM object, not further change can be propagated, even when the strategy is `liveUpdate`.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the RestartRequired condition is set on a VM object, not further change can be propagated, even when the strategy is `LiveUpdate`.  
```

Changes will become effective on next reboot, and the condition will be removed.

## Limitations

The current implementation has the following limitations:

> - To track generic changes to VM objects, we keep a copy of the previous generation as a [controller revision](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubernetes-api/workload-resources/controller-revision-v1/). That slightly increases VM footprints and adds some overhead to the VM controller's main loop .

Reviewer 2: IIRC this is not true anymore

> - Once the `RestartRequired` condition is set, the only way to get rid of it is to restart the VM. In the future, we plan on implementing a way to get rid of it by revering the VM template spec to its last non-RestartRequired state.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Once the `RestartRequired` condition is set, the only way to get rid of it is to restart the VM. In the future, we plan on implementing a way to get rid of it by reverting the VM template spec to its last non-RestartRequired state.
```

- Cluster defaults are excluded from this logic. It means that changing a cluster-wide setting that impacts VM specs will not be live-updated, regardless of the rollout strategy.

> - The `RestartRequired` condition comes with a message stating what kind of change triggered the condition (CPU/memory/other). That message pertains only to the first change that triggered the condition. Additional changes that would usually trigger the condition will just get staged and no additional `RestartRequired` condition will be added.

Reviewer 2: The output format is wrong. It is not shown as a list https://deploy-preview-758--kubevirt-user-guide.netlify.app/operations/vm_rollout_strategies/
